---
layout: post
title: 'Ruby'
date: 2019-12-11
author: DoHerasYang
color: rgb(255,210,32)
cover: 
tags: Ruby
---

# Ruby - Your First Choice for system Management

> Environment: Mac OS and Unix system
>
> Ruby version: ruby 2.6.3p62

### 1. Introduction to Ruby (2019.12.11)

#### 1.1 Why Ruby?

> + Ruby can produce the code which is very easy to use and understand. 
> + Ruby totally inherits the feature and principle of object-oriented which absorbs in the powerful metaprogramming technology.
> + Ruby provides the seamless program interface with the C program library.
> + Widely Supported by Linux and Unix system.

#### 1.2 Installation Ruby

1.Firstly, you should install the Homebrew which is the very brilliant package management software in Mac OS

```shell
$ sudo mkdir /usr/local/homebrew && curl -L https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/tarball/master | tar xz --strip 1 -C homebrew
```

2.Next, use the `brew` command to install the `Ruby` automatically.

```
$ brew install ruby
```

#### 1.3 Basic Knowledgement about the Terminal and Executable Environment

###### Ruby Files

+ Ruby files are excutable program with suffix named `*.rb` 
+ These files can be easily modified by the `vim` command and other editors.

###### Access the Ruby files with privileges of root

1.First you can create the empty Ruby file.

```shell
$ torch demo.rb
```

2.Give the executable permission to the file just created by yourself.

```shell
$ chmod u+x demo.rb
#OR you can use: chmod 777 demo.rb
```

3.Run the Ruby file

```shell
$ ./demo.rb
```

###### Some Tools before Coding

> **Ruby Grammar Retrieval Tool** - `ri` 
>
> `ri` which has been included in the Ruby official package and installed in your system. It can provide the detailed information and help of kernel library amd standard library.<br> The usage of this tool is very simple:
>
> ```shell
> $ ri <command and library you want to look up>
> # For example 
> $ ri puts
> $ ri <class name>::<method>
> ```
>
> For exiting this help interface, type `ctr+D`

> **Ruby shell** - `irb`
>
> `irb` is the command line like the python console activated by `python` which can accept the code in Ruby 
>
> ```shell
> $ irb
> irb(main):001:0> ...
> ```
>
> You can exiting the command line by `ctr+D`

#### 1.4 Mark Interpreter program to run Ruby file

If you have experience on coding the shell, you may feel familiar to indicate the interpreter program to run the ruby files. It's not because of which program can run it, but to set up what kind of pattern in interpreter.<br>		For example:		`#!/usr/bin/env ruby -w`<br>This line set the interpreter in warning pattern which can show all the warning details.<br> 	   For nomal use:     `#!/usr/bin/env`

### 2. Meet Ruby 

2.1 Variables in Ruby







